Good morning.
I trust you've all had your coffee,
or at least started to.
We're just getting ready to
come out with the third edition
of QuickTime for the Web,
and it's still a virtual book,
but it's almost ready.
Actually, it's at the printers now,
and so if you do want to get a copy of
the third edition with QuickTime 6.3,
go over to the Morgan Kaufman booth in
the main auditorium there in the area.
They've got a special going 20%
off and free shipping if you want
to order it at the show here,
so it's kind of a good deal.
It comes with QuickTime Pro,
so you can do some authoring.
This session is QuickTime for the Web,
and we're going
There we go.
That's me.
I'm Steven Gulie,
senior technical writer at Apple.
And we're going to be talking about
using QuickTime over the Internet.
That's a really broad topic,
so we're going to narrow it down some.
We're really going to be
talking primarily about putting
QuickTime on your website.
So we're going to try to bridge
the gap between painfully technical
and painfully non-technical,
and just stick with painful.
So it's mostly going to be about HTML.
There will be some movie
tricks for movie authors,
a little bit of XML,
and maybe some JavaScript if we can
get that far into the presentation.
We'll see how we're doing.
We've got mainly HTML authors
here or movie authors?
[Transcript missing]
This is going to be about how to
put QuickTime movies on a web page,
how to launch QuickTime Player from
your web page,
get those full-screen movies going,
and how to play other media, MP3, MP4,
anything you want to play using
QuickTime besides a QuickTime movie.
Some specifics about working with
MPEG-4 and QuickTime together,
the way they play together
and don't play together,
and how to put live and pre-recorded
streams on your web page,
and to decide when to stream and when to
use what we call Fast Start technology,
and I'll get into that a little bit more.
Putting media skins and
chapter lists with streams,
so mixing streaming and
non-streaming content,
which is kind of tricky,
and a little bit about scripting
QuickTime using JavaScript.
So, putting QuickTime on a web page.
The main thing there is
getting QuickTime to come up
at all through the browser.
You're coming through
a browser interface,
so the question is really how
does the browser choose what
player to bring up for multimedia,
and how do you particularly
make it choose QuickTime?
There are three HTML tags you
can use inside of a web page to
bring multimedia into a browser.
The href tag, which is your standard
hypertext link for text,
the embed tag,
which has been around for a long time,
and the object tag,
which is a little bit more recent.
The href is the most obvious thing to do.
You put it in a text link,
it says click here for the movie,
and you link to a movie,
and people click it,
and why shouldn't you do that?
Well, because it doesn't really
work very reliably.
The browser
doesn't really know what
file type it is here.
You're not able to tell the
browser what the file type is
or what plug-in you want to use.
You're just giving it a URL.
So the browser says, "Well,
what kind of file do I have
here?" And it asks the server,
typically, if it's on a web server
or if it's on a CD.
It just looks at an internal table.
But in either case,
it's going to look at the file extension,
either the server is or the browser is.
If it says "jpg," it goes, "Oh,
it's a jpeg." If it's a PDF, it goes,
"Oh, it's a PDF." If it's .mov, it goes,
"Oh, it's a QuickTime movie." Hopefully.
But it's up to the people who run
the server to update the table,
or the people who write the
browser to keep that table updated.
And people can fool around with
those tables to some extent.
So if the extension is wrong,
if you don't name your movie .mov,
if it's just my movie .nothing,
or if that's not in the table,
then it typically shows up as text.
Your movie shows up as a
big screen full of text,
and I think you've probably
seen that sometimes.
You click a link and, "Gee,
it's a screen full of text.
It doesn't seem to be what
they had in mind." And if the
extension is in the table,
then what happens?
Well, let's switch over to
the demo machine here.
A number of things can happen,
but it's not terribly predictable.
If all is well,
then when you click this link,
let's see if we can get a
little bit bigger text here.
Well, it's too big.
Then what will happen is the movie will
open in a blank window all by itself,
which is not a terribly attractive
way to display things typically.
But that's not the only
way it could happen.
It could happen in a window that's
just specifically sized for that movie,
or it could open in QuickTime Player,
or it could try to open
in Windows Media Player.
All sorts of things can happen,
and it's really up to the browser.
And that's really not the
choice that you want it to make.
And even if it does open
in QuickTime Player,
then what happens?
It may download it and open
it in QuickTime Player,
in which case your viewer is sitting
there waiting while the whole
movie downloads before it starts.
Or it may download it and then say, well,
okay, well, that's good.
If you've ever launched,
click to a PDF link,
you've probably seen this.
Sometimes it opens in the browser window,
sometimes it opens in Preview,
sometimes it opens in Acrobat,
and sometimes it just downloads to your
desktop and you have to double-click it.
And again,
those are not a lot of choices you
want to leave hanging in the air.
You want to be able to have
some control over that.
So then what happens if QuickTime is not
installed and somebody clicks that link?
Well, you don't have any way to tell
it what plug-in you want to use.
So if the user doesn't have QuickTime,
maybe they see a broken puzzle
piece or they can complain and say,
do you want a plug-in?
And they say yes,
and then it goes thrashing around
looking for a plug-in somewhere,
but it doesn't know which one to get.
Or it gives it the old college try.
It says, well,
I've heard of QuickTime movies.
Maybe I can play that.
And Explorer is really wonderful at that.
It says, let's go for it.
I can play QuickTime movies
that were authored before 1992.
And usually what you see is a broken
Windows media application player icon.
And that's also now what you want to see.
So the best way to do it
is to use the embed tag.
And again, if you're using a tool
to do your HTML for you,
you're using a...
Go live or Dreamweaver then it
will typically do this for you.
You drag a QuickTime movie on to the page
and it will make an embed tag for you.
And the way the embed tag works
is it lets you specify the
URL but also the file type so
that it doesn't have to guess.
And also the URL of the
plug-in if it doesn't have one.
So, your source code looks like this.
You've got your source which
is the movie you want to play,
the type, video QuickTime,
the plug-ins page,
apple.com/quicktime/download.
So this and the height
and width on the page.
The browser gets the file type
from the web server or the HTML.
If the web server doesn't know,
you've put it in your HTML.
If the plug-in isn't installed, it says,
"Okay, I know which URL to go to to get
it." And if the plug-in is installed,
it opens in the current web page.
I'll show you on the demo machine here.
So this is a little bit more attractive.
Your movie's playing
in the middle of a web
The EMBED tag is almost painfully simple.
You've got the source,
the height and the width.
The height is going to be typically
the height of the controller
of the movie itself plus 16.
In this case, I've set it to 20 because
it's just an audio movie,
so the height of the
movie itself is zero.
This is just a JPEG.
But in this case,
if this movie had opened
alone in its own window,
it just would have been
an audio controller.
And in this case,
it's where it really belongs,
so it looks a lot nicer.
And that's the long and short of it.
If that's all you do,
you'll have done a lot of the right
thing rather than just link to it.
But there's more.
This doesn't always work
just the way you want to.
The notion of a plug-in
was created by Netscape.
When they invented the plug-in,
they had this idea that browsers
can display a lot of things,
but people invent new media types that
we can't display or don't display yet.
People will create a media type
and they'll create a plug-in.
You'll say, my media type is Flash,
so I'll have a Flash plug-in.
When the browser sees a Flash media type,
it'll load the Flash plug-in.
All will be well.
But then things began to change
so that multiple browsers,
multiple plug-ins could
handle the same material.
MP3 and Smile are good examples.
Reel handles them,
QuickTime handles them,
Windows Media handles them.
There's all kinds of audio
plug-ins that will handle an MP3.
So when the browser sees an MP3 file,
what plug-in should it call?
And if you look back at the EMBED tag,
you'll see, we could say what plug-in to
use if there was nobody who
could handle that media type,
or where to get it, rather.
But we weren't able to say,
this is the plug-in I want
to use to play this media.
All we can say is,
it's a QuickTime movie,
or it's an MP3 file.
So who gets it if multiple
plug-ins can handle it?
Well, with Netscape,
the first one to register, with Explorer,
the most recent one to register,
and we kind of went through some mime
type wars where different people's
plug-ins would grab the mime types
and put in continuous loops where
at every interrupt it would look
and see if somebody had taken its
mime type and tried to get it back.
But the answer, if you really want to
use a QuickTime movie,
is to use a mime type that
only QuickTime registers for.
And then you won't get
into these conflicts.
And there are three QuickTime file
types that you can use,
but the two we most
recommend are the .mov.
Now,
there were problems in the past where
sometimes a Windows media player would
claim the video QuickTime mime type,
but that seems to be
behind us pretty much now,
and there are some new solutions
I'll talk about a little bit further
on that prevent that from happening.
So that's now a good mime type to use.
The other one that's really
good to use is the QTIF file,
which is the image QuickTime.
And nobody else registers for that.
However, it's fairly rare.
One of the problems you can get
into is if your server doesn't know
about QTIF files or PNTG files,
they're not in their table,
then you have to make sure that that's
put in that table by your network
administrator or by the webmaster.
And it's not hard to do.
It's a one-line command,
but it's easy to get overlooked.
There's also the .PNTG file,
which is the ImageX Mac Paint type.
And that is a mime type
that I give to people,
that I guarantee no one will ever take.
But if you use anything other than the
.mov file to play a piece of media,
you need to use the QTSource parameter.
And the way this works is
you say EMBED source equals,
say, small QTIF.
You have a small QuickTime image file.
The browser says, oh,
he wants to play a QTIF file.
Who's registered for that MIME type?
Well, only QuickTime,
so it loads the QuickTime plug-in.
Then the Qt source plug-in says, this is,
I'm sorry, the Qt source parameter.
This is some data that you
can just pass to QuickTime.
Once you've passed the source and the
height and the width to the browser,
anything else you pass goes directly
to the plug-in that gets loaded.
So you can pass all kinds of
information in your HTML web
page to the QuickTime browser to
get it to autoplay your movie,
play at a different scale,
do all kinds of neat stuff.
In this case, what you're telling it is,
even though my source
was this Qt IF file,
that's not what I want you to play.
I want you to play this movie.
And you could also use that to play
an MP3 file or an MP4 file or any
of the 200 media types QuickTime can
play on Windows or Macintosh.
So if you wanted to use QuickTime to
display a JPEG or a GIF,
well, that's fine.
And again, if they don't have it,
you've got your plug-ins page
and your height and width.
Let me show you how Qt source
looks on the demo machine.
- 15.
And what you see here is that because
we're using source and QTSource,
because we're talking to
the QuickTime plug-in,
we can tell it to auto-play the
movie and to set the volume at 25%
so it's not overwhelmingly loud.
And this basically says we've
told it QuickTime image file
is what it's going to get,
but it never displays
the QuickTime image file,
which is good because in this
case it's in another directory.
But the trick to making this work is
the source file must actually exist.
You really do need to have a
QuickTime image file there.
To make a QuickTime image file,
you can open anything,
like a single .gif in
QuickTime Player and save it as a
QuickTime image file using the exporter.
So then you've got a little backup.
But it doesn't really matter what it
looks like because it's never displayed.
QuickTime is the only plug-in that
will try to display it and it knows
better because you're telling it
the QuickTime source is the movie,
not the image file.
Now, there's a... That's the EMBED tag,
and if this is what you use,
then you're really
going to go a long way.
It's going to work in QuickTime every
time QuickTime is installed.
It'll get the QuickTime plug-in
if it's not installed,
and it will never be distracted
by another MIME type.
There's also an OBJECT tag.
The OBJECT tag is very useful because it
lets you specify a particular plug-in,
in this case an ActiveX control,
using the ID,
and it gives you the URL of the
ActiveX control if it's not there.
So on Windows, this is really terrific.
You can use the class ID and
code base that are here,
and you can cut and paste
them from our website.
It's always the same.
It's large, but it never changes,
so it's static.
And the thing that's a little
different is instead of saying
the source equals my movie,
you have a param whose name is
source and value is my movie.
But anything you would pass
to QuickTime in the EMBED tag,
you can pass in the OBJECT tag.
It's just the parameter name and value
are passed separately in a param element.
And this is now getting
a little closer to XML.
It's a little more strict,
so you have to close
your OBJECT tag properly,
not just leave it hanging.
But it's pretty nice.
The browser gets the file
type from the server.
HTML, but it doesn't matter
because you have told
[Transcript missing]
and David The OBJECT tag,
as written here, will only work in
Internet Explorer for Windows,
not any other browser,
not Internet Explorer on
any other operating system.
However, you can put them together.
And this gets to be a lot of code,
but there's really not that much to it.
What you've done is you've taken
the OBJECT tag and stuck the
EMBED tag right in the middle of it.
And what this does is it says, okay,
if I'm an Internet Explorer for Windows,
I will use the class ID and code base,
and I will get the QuickTime plug-in,
period.
If I'm not, if I'm on another operating
system or using another browser,
then I'll use the MIME type in the source
file to determine which plug-in to use,
and the QT source will tell
QuickTime which movie to play,
and the plug-ins page will tell me what
to do if QuickTime is not installed and
I'm not an Internet Explorer for Windows.
And let me just back
up a little bit here.
If you look at this EMBED tag,
what if you just use the
EMBED tag without the OBJECT tag?
This works fine on
Internet Explorer for Windows.
This works fine on all
browsers and all platforms.
You don't have to use the OBJECT tag.
But if you're on Internet Explorer for
Windows and QuickTime is not installed,
You have a problem because
Internet Explorer for Windows does not
honor the plugins page tag anymore.
Because it's not a plug-in,
it's an ActiveX control.
At least I think that's the rationale.
Anyway, if QuickTime is not installed,
it will just say,
I don't know what to do.
And so the answer is to put this
at least once in your website.
If you have a gateway to your website,
once the user gets the
QuickTime ActiveX control,
the embed tag works fine.
So at least once they have to hit
this object tag to know that this
is the ActiveX control we want.
But I think you'll find that
if you're using the latest
generation of web generating tools,
they'll surround the embed tag
with the object tag anyway.
There's a website, QT Bridge.
They make a product called Pagiot,
P-A-G-E-O-T.
It's French, but it's free.
And you can just drop your
folder full of web pages on it,
and it'll go through and
turn all the embed tags into
embed tags plus object tags.
So there's lots of free
automated help for this.
You don't have to type it in every time.
But this is the belt and
suspenders way to go,
particularly if sometime in the future
Internet Explorer decides to drop
support for the embed tag and say,
we're only using it for the web pages.
We're only using the object.
Then you'll really be glad that
all your tags look like this,
because they'll continue
to work on every system.
So don't use href, do use embed,
or better still,
use object and embed together.
And are we,
do you have any questions so far?
Are we all kind of on the same page?
Yeah.
Okay, the question is if Explorer takes
the most recent plug-in to
register for a MIME type and
Netscape takes the first one,
how does Safari work?
Safari also takes the most recently
registered for that MIME type.
It's more like a Windows system now where
there's a registry and the most recent
person to alter the registry is the
person who is listed in that registry.
But let me show you here on the demo
machine a little bit how that looks.
Again, it acts the same.
I'm going to make this a little
bigger so you can see the text.
So you've got a class ID,
you've got a code base,
and David This is the ActiveX I want.
This is where it is if you don't have it.
Here's the EMBED tag.
If you are not
Internet Explorer for Windows,
which obviously we're not,
we're Safari on the Macintosh.
I guarantee you that if
you pass the MOV file type,
Safari will bring up QuickTime.
I don't think it even asked the question.
The question is, in the EMBED tag,
don't we have a link
to the Apple web page?
And in fact, we do.
It's the plug-ins page.
I may have omitted it from the
slide here just because it takes
up a lot of space on the screen.
Okay, now once you have QuickTime plugin
talking to your web page,
you can tell QuickTime to do
a lot of interesting stuff.
It's very web friendly.
You can tell it, for example,
to autoplay the movie when it starts
or to set a background color so that it
matches the background of your web page,
to have a controller on or no
controller on so that you can
have your own stuff going on that.
Lots of stuff.
Enable JavaScript so that you can have
JavaScript control the QuickTime movie.
Set hotspots for a virtual reality.
There's an href tag that lets you say,
okay, if somebody clicks on the movie,
open this URL.
And that could be the URL of another
movie or a different web page.
Lots of things.
Put it in kiosk mode so
people can't save the movie.
Tell it to loop the movie continuously.
If it's a virtual reality pano,
you can set the pan tilt and
field of view for it to open with,
which is a really nice thing without
having to go and alter the movie itself.
QtNext.
Say when this movie is done,
play this other movie or open this
other URL when the movie is done.
Set the scale to play it twice as big,
half as big as it normally is.
You can target a movie.
When someone clicks on the movie,
it causes the URL to open in a frame,
in a browser window, in QuickTime player,
or to replace the QuickTime movie itself,
and I'll show you that in a moment.
And you can set the volume.
There's lots and lots of HTML-friendly
features of QuickTime that
you can access now and control
directly from your web page.
So one of the first things
I'm going to show you about
that is using a poster movie.
One of the problems with embedding
movies in a web page is they're big.
So if you've got a 26-megabyte movie
file and somebody goes to your web
page and it starts downloading,
it's kind of rude,
especially if they're on a dial-up.
They're kind of like, "Wait a minute,
I don't know if I signed up for
this." So you can use a single image
to bring up the QuickTime plug-in
and then warn the person that,
you know, if you click this,
something is going to happen,
and then let that be the lead-in to
play the QuickTime movie or to not.
And clicking the poster can
act to do a number of things.
Basically, it tells QuickTime,
"I want to do something."
And it could load another movie,
it could load a web page,
it could execute a JavaScript function,
it could fire off a movie
in QuickTime player.
And the key to it is just the href tag.
You have a source, which is,
in this case, let's see, where's--whoa,
I left out the QT source, or someone did.
But the QT source would be to your movie.
And there's an href so that
when you click on the movie,
it opens that URL in the
target if there's a target.
Now, let me show you that.
Over here on the demo machine.
Here's what we did for
the Audubon Society.
They didn't want the sound of the Loon,
which is a big audio file,
to load immediately, so here we have,
it just says,
click here for the QuickTime audio.
This is a little poster
sitting under the Loon,
and if I click it,
it loads a QuickTime movie.
Okay, the question is,
is there a difference between
the href and the Qt source?
Yes.
Qt source, okay.
This is really kind of an
interesting little tag.
Look at this embed tag.
The source is a small
QuickTime image file,
and all that does is tell the browser,
I want to use QuickTime.
The QuickTime source is actually a GIF.
I can tell QuickTime to display
any kind of file I want.
I'm going to reload this page.
And you see this is a GIF,
this little speaker icon in this text,
this is just a GIF called Speaker GIF.
It's got a height and a width.
I'm opening it with QuickTime.
When you open a GIF in QuickTime,
it opens it as a still image,
but it's now a QuickTime movie.
I've turned the controller off because
we don't want to play this movie,
we just want to click on it.
I've set autoplay to be
false because what's to play?
If I click on it,
that will launch the href URL,
which will be loon1.move target myself.
That says when I click on the movie,
load this URL, and the target is the
movie that I clicked on.
Replace yourself with
this QuickTime movie.
Right now, we're looking at speaker.gif,
and when I click on it,
it will load loon1.move
right where it is.
It will replace itself with the movie.
Why am I using height
20 instead of height 16?
16 is the correct height
for the controller.
The reason is because the GIF was
20 pixels that I was given.
I did this as a favor to some
people who were doing a website.
Yes?
I'm sorry, I can't hear the question.
Why don't we have a rollover?
Why don't we use a rollover?
Sure, we could use a rollover.
There are lots of ways to do this,
but I'm just showing you a poster movie,
which is basically a movie that
you click to launch another movie.
This is just one more technique
in your arsenal of things to do.
Yeah, but it should be included
in the poster movie,
in the poster frame.
Why don't you include
rollover at the poster frame?
Because you have to
right-click on that frame.
Oh, I see.
Why don't I use a rollover instead
of right-click on that frame?
Sure, you could do that.
That would be a fine thing to do.
There's no particular
reason why I didn't do that.
Although sometimes you want
people to click on the image,
but yeah,
a JavaScript rollover works fine there.
Okay.
Now, another thing you can use a poster
movie for is to launch QuickTime Player,
and one of the reasons you
might want to do that is so you
can get a full-screen movie.
Now,
to launch a movie in QuickTime Player is
pretty straightforward,
but not terribly impressive.
You just set target equals
QuickTime Player instead
of target equals myself.
But to get a full-screen movie,
you need to have either a movie
that's in full-screen mode,
or you have to have some
way to tell QuickTime,
I want to play this movie
in full-screen mode,
even though it's not
necessarily a full-screen movie.
But the short answer is to use
target equals QuickTime Player,
and...
There are several ways to make a
movie into a full-screen movie.
There's an Apple script.
You can use an Apple script
to turn on full-screen movie
mode for any movie and say,
when this movie plays,
it is to play in full-screen
mode if it's in QuickTime player.
There's a little free tool from
Apple called Plugin Helper that will
set that characteristic for you.
You can use Cleaner or Live Stage to
set that characteristic.
You can put a wired
sprite inside the movie.
Just drop it in there that's,
I'm a full-screen sprite,
and when I get loaded,
I go to full-screen mode.
Or you can use an XML text movie,
and I'll show you about that in a second.
Let me bring up a couple movies and
show you a little bit more about that.
Here's a web page, and it's got a poster.
When I click the poster,
it's going to launch.
Click the poster above to launch a
full-screen movie in QuickTime Player.
Why not use a rollover?
Well, could have done that too.
But the key is that you
get a different view.
Gee, that's a big way.
So here we set the movie to play a
full-screen movie and quit when done.
This is a really nice experience.
When somebody comes to your web
page and they click on something,
it goes full-screen, the movie plays,
then when it's done,
they're right back at the web
page like it was never there.
And it gives the impression that
you've got a full-screen plug-in.
There's no such thing.
The browser gives a little
space to the plug-in,
but the plug-in now calls
the QuickTime player,
and QuickTime player can go
full-screen and then drop back
into the browser when it's done.
So this is a really nice technique.
here.
may show it to you in a larger way.
Is this readable at all?
Can you see that text?
Maybe not.
Okay, well, how big can we go?
How's that?
Getting somewhere?
This is a really simple text file.
This is an XML text file.
And it just says, "I'm an XML text file.
I'm a QuickTime media link." These first
two lines are always the same,
so you can cut and paste them.
You don't have to remember that.
Just type it in.
Just cut and paste it.
All that really matters is
your very last line here,
"embed source equals." And here
you just put in all your embed
tags you would want to do.
So you can set full-screen mode,
autoplay, quit when done.
It's really handy.
This is a text file.
And you can see it's a text file
because I just opened it up with
[Transcript missing]
It'll warn me, "Hey,
you can't just change file
extensions like that." But yes,
you can.
Well, so, XML, the miracle of XML.
You take an XML file,
you give it an MOV file extension,
QuickTime will play it as a movie,
and this is great.
Now I can embed that
movie in my web page,
or I can call it from anything.
It's just really terrific to have
this capability at your fingertips.
So that's kind of a neat technique
I wanted you to know about.
Okay, we've seen posters.
No, no.
The question is, is that only for Safari?
That works in any web browser
that's out there today.
Okay,
we're getting some questions about this.
Let me go into this a
little bit more then.
I think I have some other
movies that illustrate this
maybe just a little bit better.
Obviously,
I've kind of dropped a bombshell here.
Everybody's going, wait a minute,
what are you doing?
Let's look at these.
The XML is not being interpreted
by the browser at all.
It's by QuickTime.
We've got the browser to call QuickTime.
This, by the way,
is taken from the website for the book.
Let's look at Special Delivery.
Okay.
So first we're just opening
a movie in QuickTime Player.
Then we're going a little step
further and opening it in full screen.
Okay.
Now, we didn't have to change
the file type from a
Text to MOV.
We could have changed it to .qtl.
.qtl is defined as
Application QuickTime Player,
and when you open a QTL file,
the browser should automatically
launch QuickTime Player.
That's how real does it.
They use .rm or .ram files,
and the browser just
knows to use their player.
The problem is that, again,
it isn't always registered for that.
Sometimes it downloads and plays.
It leaves what we call
a mouse dropping behind.
It leaves the QTL file
behind on the viewer's disk.
We tend to use it as a MOV file,
so it opens in the plug-in and then let
the plug-in launch the player rather than
ask the browser to launch the player.
If you use any file
extension besides MOV or QTL,
the operating system is going
to treat that as telling you
what kind of file type it is.
If you call it .jpg,
it's going to try to open it as a JPEG.
If you call it .txt,
it's going to display it.
But if you call it a .mov file,
or you use the QT source parameter
to open it with QuickTime,
it's going to try to open it as a .jpg.
If you call it .qtl,
it's going to try to open it as a .qtl.
That means you have a poster movie
that calls an XML file that calls
Yes, okay, here's the question.
We have a poster movie
that calls an XML file that
specifies yet another movie,
and that's right.
So we're getting kind of several
levels of indirection here,
but that's how it works.
But obviously the key is that it
allows you to... The nice thing
about doing it this way is that
XML file can be generated by a
Perl script or a CGI really easily.
You don't have to actually
generate movies and specify them.
You can just say play the movie of
the day dot move and have a text
file that spits out the right movie,
which could be specific to the browser,
to the user, to all kinds of things.
So it's really handy to have
that kind of indirection,
although it is a little
confusing sometimes.
Okay.
Which versions of QuickTime will
recognize the XML?
QuickTime 4.1 and later, I believe.
What we found is that since we
have the auto-update in place,
we're not finding old versions
of QuickTime very often anymore.
QuickTime 4 and later
automatically update to 5,
automatically updates to 6.
Some people choose not
to do the downloads,
so you might hit QuickTime 5,
but the likelihood that you'll
hit something that can't interpret
that XML file is very unlikely.
If you have a poster movie,
a couple of things.
Make the poster the size of the
movie that you really want to play,
plus 16,
so there's room for a controller.
Set the controller false for the poster,
because otherwise people will try to play
the poster instead of clicking on it.
Set the href parameter equal to
the URL of the movie you want to
play when somebody clicks on it.
If you want the poster
to morph into a movie,
then set target equals myself.
Let me show you just one more thing
about that back in the demo machine.
Here we go.
Multi-movie.
Here we've got a web page
with three movies on it,
but we really don't want to download
all three movies simultaneously.
So what we do is we say, "Okay,
Flowers and chirping birds,
sunshine and bunny rabbits all as well.
Okay.
So what we're seeing here
is posters that link,
that turn into movies
when you click them.
And I'll just show you something
that I won't really explain,
but it is in the book,
which is that you can have
a poster turn into a movie.
[Transcript missing]
and the poster movie doesn't
have a controller because you
don't want people to play it.
You want people to click on it.
So that's setting target
equals QuickTime player.
For full-screen movies,
you can either make the movie itself
a full-screen movie that just,
when it plays, it plays in full-screen,
or you can use XML to set
full-screen mode to play any
movie you want in full-screen.
And any more questions
about what we just covered?
OK, we're all on the same page,
or else people are beginning to
glaze over one way or the other.
OK, let's look at playing some things
besides QuickTime Movies in
QuickTime Player or QuickTime Plugin.
And why would you want to do that?
MP3 audio, MP4, Flash, Smile,
RTSP streams.
Some of these things, like Smile or RTSP,
might be QuickTime Movies.
And so you want to
direct them to QuickTime,
specifically because it is QuickTime.
But why might you want to
play an MP3 file in QuickTime?
Well, because if you just load
up an MP3 file and say,
embed this and play it in whatever,
you don't have any idea
what's going to play it.
You don't know what
it's going to look like.
You can't really control it.
You can't set autoplay or set the volume.
You don't know if it's going
to open an application,
if it's going to download.
QuickTime is pretty nice at this.
It actually will play it for you,
and it plays it while it's downloading.
And you can set it to auto start and
set the volume level and set it to
loop or set it to-- put an href on it.
So if somebody clicks on
your-- put a poster with it,
so if somebody clicks on the
poster while the song is playing,
they're taken to your website with
an opportunity to buy the album,
that sort of thing.
So you can use QTSource to specify
anything of the over 200 media types
that QuickTime can play and say,
no, I want to play this in QuickTime.
And as we saw in this previous demo,
you can display a GIF,
but when somebody clicks on the GIF,
take a QuickTime action based on that.
So it's a really handy way
to repurpose other media.
And again, it's fairly straightforward.
The source is some piece of media
that only QuickTime registers for,
and the QTSource is
anything QuickTime can play.
And I'll just go ahead and show you that.
Again here,
this is not a QuickTime movie,
it's an MP3,
and we told it's QuickTime image
file with the QT source as an MP3,
so it's playing MP3 with QuickTime,
even though QuickTime is not necessarily
the registered plug-in for MP3,
but we can make it play anything
because we got the browser
to let us talk to QuickTime.
Okay.
So that brings us up to MPEG-4,
which you would use
similar techniques for.
MPEG-4 and QuickTime are close cousins.
The MPEG-4 file specification is based on
the QuickTime movie file specification,
and that means they're really,
really similar.
But they're not actually the same.
So if it's an MP4 file,
QuickTime imports it and makes minor
changes in it before it plays it.
If it's a movie file,
an MPEG-4 player is not
going to be able to play it.
And there's a lot of
confusion around that,
because people think of MPEG-4 as being
a video codec or the AAC audio codec,
and so they go, well,
if it's an AAC audio,
I can call it .mov or MP4.
Not true.
The files are similar
but slightly different.
So there are two important ways that
you can use MPEG-4 in QuickTime.
You can use MPEG-4 video or
audio inside a QuickTime movie.
So we've got a QuickTime movie.
It can show video compressed
any one of a thousand ways.
Well, MPEG-4 is one of those
kinds of compression.
It can do MP3 audio.
It can do, you know,
all sorts of compression
techniques for audio.
But AAC audio is one of them.
So if you'd use this,
if you use QuickTime MPEG-4 video
or audio in QuickTime movies,
you have the advantage of being
able to use the MOV file format,
so you can mix and match with
other kinds of QuickTime media.
If you want AAC audio over
your QuickTime virtual reality,
okay,
use MPEG-4 audio in a QuickTime movie.
The other way to use MPEG-4 in
QuickTime is you can create,
play, and stream native MPEGs.
You can create MPEG-4 files.
And this is really a cool way to go.
It's interoperable
with other ISO streams,
files, and players.
So you can use QuickTime to play
MPEG-4 from other people's streamers
or created by other applications.
Or you can create MPEG-4 files in
QuickTime and then play them in
real or Windows Media Player with
the correct plug-ins.
You can hint MPEG-4 files
for streaming in QuickTime.
You can author them.
And you can use the MP4 file format.
So it's really strong support
for MPEG-4 in QuickTime,
more than any other file
type we've ever seen.
And again, you just use the QT source if
you want to play an MPEG-4 file,
just like you would an MP3.
Yeah?
The question is, why are we using Qt
source for the MP4 file?
Well,
because anybody can register for MP4.
You could have 100 different players.
So you might not want to.
You might say, hey, source equals MP4.
Anybody who can play on MP4,
please play it.
I don't need QuickTime.
I'm not worried about that.
And if you want to reach the
broadest possible audience,
that might be a way to go.
But if you want to be sure that the MP4
is going to play in QuickTime because
you want more control over the web page
and that's the plug-in you want to use,
then say source equals
something QuickTime will play,
Qt source equals the MP4.
So this is a technique to play MP4 files
in QuickTime or to force QuickTime player
to be used to play the MP4 file.
If you want to leave it up for grabs,
that's also an entirely viable option.
Yes.
Male #1: Okay.
Here we're getting--the question is
showing me that there's some confusion.
An MOV file is not an MP4 file.
You can't just change the file extension.
If you open a movie in QuickTime and
it has MP4 audio and video,
you can either save it as a
QuickTime movie or you can export to MP4.
And the audio and video will not
be recompressed but it will be
saved in the MP4 file format.
If you just change MP4 to
move and back and forth,
bad things will happen because they're
such close cousins that if you try
to open an MP4 file in QuickTime and
you tell it it's an MOV file,
it will do a superficial look and go,
"Yeah, it looks like an MOV file to me.
This is a movie," and it will try to play
it and then it's not going to work right.
And if you name a QuickTime movie MP4,
it might open in another MP4 player
or even QuickTime and it will go,
"Yeah, this looks like an MP4
but it isn't." And again,
things will go wrong.
So it's very important not to
just swap the file extension but
to actually import and export.
I see a question in the back.
I'm not sure I heard the question.
Does it override the browser mime types?
Oh, in the EMBED tag,
you can set the mime type.
And I think the question is,
does that override the
mime type of the file?
Not reliably.
The server will tell the
browser what the mime type is,
the extension will be mapped to a table,
and you have the HTML.
And all three could be
saying different things.
So what should the browser believe?
What's in its own table,
what the server is telling it,
or what you're telling it?
It's really up to the
author of the browser,
and they have different
opinions about that.
So again, using source,
you can only use the QuickTime file type.
You can't play MP4s in
QuickTime using the source.
If you use the source
command to point to an MP4,
it will go to whatever
player is selected for MP4s.
It might be QuickTime, it might not.
If you use QTSource,
it will use QuickTime to
play MP4s or anything else.
MPEG-4 audio and video can be in a
movie or it can be in an MP4 file.
You can export movies to MP4.
To force an MP4 file to use QuickTime,
use Source and QTSource.
Just use Source, it's up for grabs.
But they're not the same.
the same.
More questions?
Okay, yeah.
The question is, if you use QTSource,
is it going to play in QuickTime even
if something else is selected for MP4?
Yes, because the source is
what the browser looks at.
The browser doesn't know
anything about QTSource.
It looks at that parameter and says,
this is jibber-jabber to me.
I know the source.
The source is a QuickTime movie
or a QuickTime image file,
so I'm calling QuickTime.
Then QuickTime says, ah,
I know what a QuickTime source is.
I'll play this MP4 file.
So the browser has no idea that
it's dealing with an MP4 file.
It just knows about the source file.
By the way,
make the source file small because
the browser is going to download it.
So just use a little image.
QuickTime image file is good for
that or a small QuickTime movie,
a couple of K.
All right,
and let me--I'm going to show you an
MPEG-4 file just like the MP--actually,
I'm going to open this in
Internet Explorer because--
Here we've got an MPEG-4 file playing
in QuickTime in Internet Explorer.
I'm believing Internet Explorer does
not know--this version of
Internet Explorer does not
know what an MPEG-4 file is,
let alone know that
QuickTime should play it.
But it's happy to do it because it said
the source is a QuickTime image file,
so the QT source can be anything,
it just doesn't know.
I'm sorry,
can I hear that question again?
Will it work if I leave the source empty,
source equals MP4?
Okay, will this work if you
leave source equals MP4?
Empty.
Oh, leave the source empty?
If the source tag is empty,
then the browser has no
idea what you want to do.
No.
QuickTime will only load if the
browser is told to load a file
that it can't play and that the
QuickTime plug-in is registered for.
The file has to exist and it has
to be of a MIME type that only
QuickTime is registered for.
And if QuickTime is not installed,
then you want to have the
Plugins page tagged there.
Now, there's a caveat for this.
This is all somewhat less
true in Internet Explorer for
Windows because the OBJECT tag says,
"I want the QuickTime plug-in.
If it's not there,
go get it." And whatever gets
played is up to the plug-in.
So it's less sensitive.
When you use the OBJECT tag,
you're saying,
"We're playing it in QuickTime.
I don't care."
So it's indifferent,
but any other browser,
any other operating system,
you really need to use the
source and QT source this way.
But the key thing I'm trying to
get across is that the movie and
the MPEG-4 are a little different,
and you can't just change
the file extension or expect
it to work the same way.
Okay.
So, let's change subjects all
together and talk about streaming.
Is everybody ready for a change in topic?
Okay.
Not me, I'm sorry.
I'm bothering you,
but I'm not clear about your answer.
I'm going to source MPEG-4 because
I want to have open QuickTime.
What I'm hearing is that
Despite opening a source that's
a QuickTime-enabled source,
anyway, I have to say QuickTime source,
always.
Okay.
The question is, if I set the source,
if I understand the question,
if I set the source to a QuickTime movie,
can't I then set the
source to an MP4 file?
Why do I have to use QTSource?
Because you can't have two source
parameters in the same tag.
If the source is one thing,
that's what it is.
So the QTSource is your other source.
The source tag is for the browser,
the QT source is for the plug-in.
All right.
There's some great stuff
happening in streaming,
and streaming is a little different
from the kind of movies we've
been looking at here on our disk.
It uses real-time protocols.
The real difference between streaming
and the movies we've been looking at
is that streaming in these real-time
protocols goes over the network
in such a way that a one-minute
movie is transmitted in one minute.
If you've got a fast Internet connection,
it still takes a minute.
If you've got a slow Internet connection
and it can't hold the data,
it's coming over in a minute.
If it doesn't get through,
it just doesn't get through.
It just gets dropped on the floor.
You can't buffer it
up and watch it later.
It's a real-time protocol.
The good thing about that is you
can carry live audio and video.
Things are happening in real time,
and there's no way to carry live
audio and video except with streaming.
You can't record it and
play the recorded movie.
It's happening now.
Another good thing is if you
record a movie and you stream it,
you can start streaming
from any point in the movie.
That's really nice.
You've got a two-hour movie.
People want to skip around,
or you've got multiple
lessons in a learning course.
People want to go to lesson
three or listen to that again.
They don't have to download the whole
movie to that point to watch it.
They can just skip right to
that point and start streaming
from the middle of the movie.
It supports multicast.
This is really a cool thing.
If you have a movie and
you've got a campus land.
You've got a hundred
people watching the movie.
You're sending out a hundred copies
of the movie over the network.
You've all seen what happens when
two thousand people fire up their
laptops over the local airport network.
It gets pretty extreme.
But if you send one copy of a
stream to a multicast address,
everyone can turn their computer to that
multicast address and watch the movie,
and you're really only sending out one
copy of the movie over the network,
and everybody is looking.
Because a network,
remember a packet network,
it's kind of like postcards, right?
They go past everybody,
but your computer only looks at
the ones that are addressed at it.
But if I say this is one
that everybody can look at,
then all your computers can
look at it as it goes by on
the bus or through the ether.
You don't have to send multiple copies,
so that's really nice.
That doesn't work over the Internet,
but it works great over campus
LANs and corporate LANs.
The bad things about streaming are it has
to fit within the available bandwidth.
If you've got a 28 kilobit per
second movie playing on a 27
kilobit per second connection,
it doesn't play.
You don't see anything,
you don't hear anything.
The other thing is that because
it's a real-time protocol,
typically lost data is not retransmitted,
and over the Internet there's some loss,
so you have little artifacts, video,
audio dropouts, things don't show up.
And the third thing is it's
limited to certain media types.
Audio, video, text, and URL events.
It sounds like a lot, gee, audio, video,
and it is a lot.
But there's no Flash, there's no VR,
there are lots of things
that you can't send,
3D models.
[Transcript missing]
So, how do you play a stream?
How do you put a stream in a web page?
It's a little different.
Because it uses the
real-time RTSP protocol,
its URL is going to start with RTSP.
And if you just embed it in a web page,
what's going to happen is,
even if it's .mov file, if it's RTSP,
my server, my path, my.move,
many times the browser will go, "Oh,
RTSP.
That means I better use Reel." Or, "Oh,
that means I better use
Windows Media Player." Or,
"That must mean I use
Joe's Streamer." So,
what you do is you use
source and QTSource.
Ordinarily, with QTSource,
QuickTime will tell the
browser to get a file for it.
It will use the facilities of
the browser to do the download,
even though the browser
isn't displaying it.
So, you use QTSource, don't use browser.
This is a tag which tells
QuickTime not to use the browser
to get the QuickTime source movie.
And that way, the RTSP will not be
redirected or misdirected.
It says, "QuickTime, use your RTSP." So,
you use your own resources to get this.
It's usually pretty good.
I think current versions will
do that automatically for RTSP.
Have I got a QuickTime engineer
in the audience?
Not today.
Okay.
I'm on my own.
I believe that's correct.
So, another choice is you can use
a text movie to embed a stream.
And you saw how that worked with the XML.
That could be an RTSP URL.
There are a couple ways.
A third way is to use a reference movie.
If I open a stream in
QuickTime Player and save
as a self-contained movie,
what am I saving?
I can use a QuickTime movie that's
basically a wrapper around a URL.
And then I can embed that movie
in a web page and it will open the
stream when somebody clicks on it.
So let me kind of show you a
couple ways to do a text movie.
Let's see if this works.
Go over here to the demo machine and
I will once again show you a text file,
the thing
This is just an RTSP URL,
and there are eight characters
that precede that URL.
RTSP, all uppercase, TEXT, all lowercase.
This is known as the text atom hack,
and I won't go into all
the reasons for that.
But if you start a file
with the characters RTSP,
TEXT, and then immediately
follow it with an RTSP URL,
you can treat that as a QuickTime movie,
and QuickTime will open that URL.
But what do you have to
do to make that work?
Well, you have to say,
"It's a movie file, not a text file.
So instead of trying to display it,
the browser will use,
or the operating system will
use QuickTime to display it."
Yeah, this is using a text movie
instead of a reference movie.
Again, a reference movie is I open
the streaming QuickTime player,
I save it,
I've created a QuickTime movie.
And that's a perfectly good way to go.
Why would you use this instead?
Maybe you don't want to
create QuickTime movies,
maybe you just want to generate
text files because it's a hassle.
It saves you a step.
Again, if you're using PHP or Perl or
something to generate these,
you can generate these
movies that are just,
anything that can generate a text
file can generate one of these movies.
movies.
Hopefully, yeah, again,
I just opened a text file.
As a movie, I'm playing it.
QuickTime is doing the right thing.
And after a little buffering because
we're coming from down under,
I think we're -- -- up there with a
few of his buddies like one giant lead,
MaxiJazz.
Steve Adubato: Live from Australia.
Okay.
I'm sorry?
Can you use chapters on a
streaming movie like this?
Can I use --
Oh, yes.
Can I use chapters?
Well, that--the question is,
can I use chapters in that
kind of a streaming movie?
The answer is no, not exactly.
To use chapters in a streaming movie,
you really have to have a
regular movie and a stream.
Here's an example of a streaming movie.
This is actually a webcast from
Steve Jobs' keynote in 1999.
A really inspiring keynote
that went on for two hours.
So if you just wanted to know what he
had to say about QuickTime at that point,
It would be really nice to be able
to just jam down there and see it.
And so you can skip around.
Time has become huge for us.
We announced QuickTime 4.
QuickTime 4.
Okay.
So here's an example of a two-hour
movie and how long did I have to
wait to download the part I wanted.
Use chapter lists with
streaming movies that are long.
They don't stream.
Chapter lists do not stream.
So what you have to do is you open the
streaming movie up in QuickTime Player,
then you add a chapter list.
In QuickTime Pro, this is a text file.
It's really easy to do.
There's free tools that
will do it for you.
Look around in the
Internet utilities on the web.
There's all kinds of cool stuff.
It's really easy to do and
it really enhances the value,
especially for distance learning
of long streaming movies.
But the question was,
"Can you do that with an
XML file?" And the answer is,
"No." The RTSP hack is
just to pass an RTSP URL.
If you want to do more
elaborate mixtures,
you really have to use a reference movie.
The first eight characters
are case-sensitive.
The question is,
what part of the RTSP hack
is case-sensitive?
The first eight characters.
The first four characters
must be uppercase RTSP.
The second four characters
must be lowercase T-E-X-T.
And what's happening is the
QuickTime player is trying
to open a QuickTime movie.
It's looking for a movie atom.
It says, "Well, I don't see a movie atom,
but I see a text atom." It's
the length of the text atom,
the character's RTSP.
That's why we call it a hack.
You can also use XML the
way I showed you earlier,
and that's a far more structured way,
and that works beautifully.
And then you can tell it to play it
in QuickTime Player and full-screen,
and you can pass all
kinds of extra parameters,
which is also very nice.
Oh yeah, here it is.
Here's the XML version.
So instead of using the RTSP hack,
say you can't remember whether to use
up or lowercase and it's confusing,
just use the XML.
It stays the same.
Top first two lines are always the same.
It's an XML, it's a media link.
and you embed,
you give it the MOV file extension and
embed it just like any QuickTime movie.
[Transcript missing]
The question is,
the gentleman saw earlier an
XML file that you would drag and
drop onto QuickTime Player that
would turn into a movie file,
and that was a media skin.
Basically,
QuickTime is moving towards XML.
XML is the data format that's
going to conquer the world.
We thought it was MP3.
We were wrong.
It's XML.
Basically,
more and more as we go forward,
you'll find that you can export anything
from any format into XML and then
import it into any compatible version.
What's happening here is
this is a QuickTime XML,
and we're giving it the EMBED tag.
We're saying, okay,
this is a QuickTime media link.
Here's the source.
If instead of QuickTime media link,
it said QuickTime media skin,
we would give it some image files.
QuickTime has all kinds,
a growing list of XML importers.
Basically, you will be able to pass all
kinds of things as we go into
the future to QuickTime as XML.
The syntax will be very similar,
but the actual parameters will
typically be a little different.
For skin, you'll want to give it an
image file and a mask file,
a drag region.
For a movie, you'll just give it a URL.
Okay, embedding streamings in a web page,
using a reference movie,
I've pretty much talked about that.
You open the stream,
you save it as a self-contained movie,
and it's just a wrapper for URL,
it works great.
The bonus is that you can
then edit the movie to add
things like the chapter list.
And let me show you some other
things you can add to streams.
Again, I don't have time to
go into the techniques,
and I don't mean to cheat you that way,
but I think it's worth
seeing some things.
Here's a...
Yeah.
This is a QuickTime movie.
It's got a media skin, so it doesn't look
like a QuickTime movie.
It looks like its own application.
And when we play it,
We've got QuickTime VR here,
so obviously this gets the
media types that don't stream.
I can interact with it,
I can drag it around,
I can drive myself crazy with it,
but I can
So here we've got a skinned
player with a lot of things
that are even more interesting,
arguably, than a...
This is one of those amazing
Michael Schaaf productions that
just blows your mind every time.
Yeah, you can mix things with streams.
So streaming is great and
non-streaming is great,
and mixing them is really--here's
something a little bit--you don't have to
be--something a little more understated.
Okay, the question is,
how do you really do this?
And the answer is,
you open the streaming track in
QuickTime Player and then save
it as a self-contained movie.
Now you've got a streaming movie.
And then you can open that in
QuickTime Player and edit it just
as you would any other movie,
to add Flash, add sprites.
It's just one more media
type that you're mixing in,
and this media type is a streaming track,
which is just basically
a wrapper around a URL.
And here's Wilco.
They've got really nice,
high-quality MPEG-4 playing.
And again,
you see your player doesn't have to be...
It doesn't have to be loud or abrasive.
It can be just really attractive.
There are some really
nice ones coming out now,
so it's a nice thing to do.
Let me see if I can...
That's for recorded streams,
what I just told you.
Live streams are a little different,
and I will show you that now.
Pre-recorded stream,
we just talked about that.
When you add a media to a stream,
you can either add it
or you can add scaled.
If you've used QuickTime Player Pro,
it basically adds scale.
It says,
"Take the duration of the thing I've
selected and add." If I want to add
a still image to a streaming audio,
I add scale.
So you select the whole streaming
audio and add this image for
the duration of the audio.
For live streams, it's a little trickier.
I wonder if I have a live
stream I can open here.
I think I do.
I'm going to try to show you this,
but first I'm going to explain
it just in case I can't show you.
You're going to open the stream
in QuickTime Player and save it,
but now you've got a
pointer to a live stream.
A live stream doesn't
have a known duration.
QuickTime doesn't know how long it
is or where you are in the stream.
It's always the eternal now.
So you have to disable the streaming
track in order to do any editing,
because editing is time-based.
And that's the trick.
If you use QuickTime Player Pro,
if you're using another tool,
it may be very simple.
Say,
open this live stream and add this media,
and it just works.
I think LiveStage just
hides all that from you.
If you're trying to do it in
QuickTime Player Pro for $30,
then you have to jump through some hoops.
But basically, the thing is you disable
the streaming track,
and that'll get your time slider back,
bring in your other media,
add scaled to the whole duration,
and then re-enable your live track.
And I'll try to show you that now.
This is where the demo gets off
into some interesting areas.
Okay.
Go right.
And let's go mixing.
Okay, looks like we're getting
a live stream here.
Now as you can see,
there's no time slider in the
controls because we don't know
what the story is with that.
We don't know what time it is,
how long it is, we can't skip backwards
because it's live,
we can't skip forward because it's live.
But if I go into the movie,
rather the edit, okay,
let me do a command J, get information.
Here's the movie, information,
and it has one track which
is a streaming track,
and that's all it has.
QDesign 2, it's classical music,
it's lovely.
All right.
And what I'm going to do now is
I'm going to disable that track.
Go to the Enable Tracks menu and say,
"You are no longer enabled.
Thank you." Now you see
we have a time slider.
So now if I want to open -- okay,
here's Web Radio Move.
Here's something that looks like a radio,
and I'll extract a track from it.
"The picture sounds good.
Let's extract that.
That's good.
Okay.
Now I have an image.
It has a duration of... Oh,
it's really long.
Okay, cool.
Okay.
So.
Copy that.
I hit Command--let me
do it so you can see.
Copy.
And I just--when you copy
with nothing selected,
it copies the image that you're seeing.
Okay, I didn't need to save that.
Go back here and now select all, edit.
I've scaled.
Okay, and now I believe I can
re-enable the streaming track.
Right.
And now I have an image whose duration
is more or less eternal right along.
And so here I've basically added
a picture to a live stream.
It was a little tricky.
I had to disable it and then
re-enable it to get the slider.
But obviously the principle
here is pretty straightforward.
If you have a live radio station,
you want to have it playing with
the image of your radio station
or the song that's being played.
You don't want to have it
just playing in the player.
You can mix live streams
with non-streaming media.
And the book goes into great
detail about other ways to do that.
Is there a QuickTime call to swap pics?
There is a live sprite actions
that you can use to swap things.
You can have it as part of the movie.
Yes, there are ways to make the image
change with what's being broadcast.
Okay, now,
I think we've kind of gone over why
you would stream versus fast start,
embedding streams in a web page
using source and QT source,
text movies, reference movies,
pre-recorded and live streams.
Any questions about
what we just dealt with?
All right, we're on the same page.
This is going good.
We have three and a half minutes.
All right.
Just real quick,
if we had a -- if I have a live stream
going like that and I want to put indexes
for scene change with the question
he asked about changing the picture,
your standard like change
the album art for the thing,
but you want to do a live
stream like off a radio station,
not a sequence of concatenated MP3 files,
how would you approach that?
What I would do is
I would get ChannelStorm,
which is an application
that does just that.
It's a live studio in software,
and QuickTime supports this,
but you can't do it easily
from QuickTime Broadcaster.
You need a little bit more
sophisticated application that
can say send an event stream,
mix this current -- basically you're
sending live -- what you're doing is
you're streaming video as well as audio.
It's just that your video
has a very low bandwidth.
That's the short answer.
And you could also send text
with URLs if you wanted to load
up a web page at that point.
Yes?
For streaming tracks,
for streaming movie, can you add,
can you stream href tracks?
Can you add, excuse me?
href tracks.
Yes, href tracks stream, actually.
So you can add an href track
to a streaming movie or you
can stream the href track.
And an href track,
for those of you who don't know,
is a text track which
consists of a series of URLs,
but it's a QuickTime text track,
so these URLs arrive at a certain time.
And basically it says,
when I get to this point in the movie,
load this URL.
And let me, yeah,
let me show you that over here.
There's a little demo of it.
Something like that.
This is worth seeing.
It's kind of cute.
I'll just show it for
you to see how it works.
Doesn't look promising.
Let's try this one.
Welcome to the audio tour.
This is an example of a talking web tour.
It combines an audio
track and an href track.
The href track loads
HTML pages into the top frame,
synchronized to the narration.
The tour is controlled by the
audio movie playing in the
frame at the bottom of the page.
You can pause the audio movie at any
time to explore links in the upper frame.
This is live HTML and it's being
driven by an href track in a movie,
which is unexpected.
I think we have a bug
to report to Apache.
Maybe I'll open this in Exploder.
Here's a tricky thing that
browsers sometimes do.
It's actually downloading
the movie from the hard disk
to a cache on the hard disk.
That's another reason why you might
sometimes want to use QTSource,
don't use browser.
If you're distributing large
movies on a CD and you find that
you just try to open the movie,
the browser thinks that the movie is
coming from the web because it's not
really very intelligent sometimes.
It's trying to load this
high-bandwidth movie from the disk,
put it into a disk cache,
play it out of the disk cache.
It's basically doing three
times the work it needs to do.
If it's a high-bandwidth movie,
it can choke or take a very long time.
If you use QTSource, don't use browser,
that avoids that.
Bring the sound back up.
Okay.
So this is as this movie plays along.
The sample content for Chapter 3,
"Bust a Move." So that's just
to show you a little bit of some
of the power of a HREF track.
Other questions?
Are these examples on the website?
Some of them are on the website.
They are all on the CD that
comes with the book.
And I'm putting more of them
on the website all the time.
The new edition,
the third edition with QuickTime 1
now and 6.3 in a couple weeks,
we're just revving the CD as we go along
and we'll be posting updates on the web.
You can order it now from the
Morgan Kaufman booth here at the show.
They'll give you 20%
off and free shipping.
I think it's expected next
week or in a couple weeks.
Two weeks.
Okay.
Real soon now.
Male #1: Similar to the last
thing that you showed,
are you able in the skins to
embed like HTML web functionality,
kind of like a little mini browser,
if you will, inside of the skin that
interacts with the movie?
Kind of the way this movie
interacted with the page?
Yes.
The short answer is yes.
And we're out of time.
Thank you very much.